ALAPY Compressor - high throughput genetics data compression tool

USAGE
  alapy [OPTION] [FILE] [OPTION]...

SYNOPSIS
  alapy [-c --compress] [-d --decompress] [FILE] [-o --outdir] [-n --name] [-q --quiet]

DESCRIPTION
Compress .fastq or .fastq.gz FILE to .ac format or decompress .ac FILE to fastq.gz file
with the exact copy of the original fastq file contents. By default, compress or
decompress FILE in-place leaving original file intact. By default lossless ALAPY
Compressor algorithm is used. You can specify output directory (this directory must exist
as the program will not create it). You can also change output file name. By default the
program outputs progress information to stdout but it can be suppressed.

OPTIONS
The options for the program are as follows:

-h --help
Print this help and exit

-v --version
Print the version of the program and exit

-c --compress
Compress your fastq or fastq.gz file to ALAPY Compression format .ac file. Use "-c -" to
pass input data from stdin.

-d --decompress
Decompress your .ac file to fastq or fastq.gz file. Use "-" as the last option instead of
--outdir to redirect output FASTQ records to stdout.

-l --level
Set compression level. Possible values: "best", "medium", "fast" (short aliases "b", "m"
and "f" respectively). Default value "medium".

-o --outdir
Create all output files in the specified output directory. Please note that this directory
must exist as the program will not create it. If this option is not set then the output
file for each file is created in the same directory as the file which was processed. If
output file already exists in place the name of the output file will be changed by adding
the output file version.

-n --name
Rename your file after progress

-q --quiet
Suppress all progress messages on stdout and report errors only.

EXAMPLES
We tested ALAPY Compressor on a number of public .fastq.gz files and found 1.5 to 3 times
compression ration over gziped fastq.gz files. Examples of ALAPY Compressor usage can be
found at FAQ page for ALAPY Compressor at http://alapy.com/faq/

We would love to know compression ratio for your files. Could you please share it with us
at compressor@alapy.com

BUGS
Could you please report any bugs you found in ALAPY Compressor to bugs@alapy.com or at
www.alapy.com via the REPORT A BUG contact form on
http://alapy.com/services/alapy-compressor/

PIPELINE INTEGRATION AND OTHER INQUIRIES
Please write to us at info@alapy.com regarding ALAPY Compressor integration into your
workflows and pipelines, about other data formats compression and all other inquiries.
Thank you.
Enjoy!